README.md, before:

snel
==============================================================================

`snel` is the [lightweight](http://idlewords.com/talks/website_obesity.htm) 
template and a static website generator that I use for my personal website. It 
is currently a work-in-progress, but it is mostly functional. It roughly 
consists of three parts, each of which, I hope, may prove useful to someone:

1.  A simple makefile, to create documents and other resources.

2.  A Python script to generate a table of contents directly from the 
    directory structure.

3.  A logo and a minimalist style to present the above.


To install `snel`, do `make install`. To then use it with your own project, 
simply create a `Makefile` with the following lines:

    SRC=/path/to/sources
    DEST=/path/to/build
    USER=ftp_username
    HOST=ftp_host
    REMOTE=ftp_directory
    include snel.mk

Executing `make` will then generate a `build/` directory containing scripts, 
stylesheets and the example website. Should this be a bit primitive for your 
tastes, try other static website generators such as [hugo](http://gohugo.io/), 
[hakyll](https://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/about.html),
[jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/), [nanoc](https://nanoc.ws/), 
[yst](https://github.com/jgm/yst) or [middleman](https://middlemanapp.com/).



Makefile
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Plain text formats like [Markdown](http://commonmark.org/help/) and 
[YAML](http://www.yaml.org/spec/) are lightweight, understandable, and 
modifiable. In the spirit of the [UNIX 
philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy), I glued a couple 
of standard tools into a [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make)-recipe for 
website generation.

Using `pandoc`, it creates an HTML file for every Markdown document it can 
`find` in the source directory. Upon running `make` a second time, any 
resource referenced in the source file metadata will also be generated. Given 
an appropriate configuration, the results are uploaded with `lftp` by calling 
`make upload`.

As of now, the recipe calls for [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org/) 2.x with 
[pandoc-citeproc](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc-citeproc),
[Panflute](https://github.com/sergiocorreia/panflute),
[Python](https://www.python.org/) 3.x,
[sass](http://sass-lang.com/),
[svgo](https://github.com/svg/svgo),
[ImageMagick](http://www.imagemagick.org/),
[jp2a](https://csl.name/jp2a/),
[lftp](http://lftp.yar.ru/) and
[find](https://www.gnu.org/software/findutils/) — but you could easily 
substitute or add any ingredient.

Index
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The directory hierarchy is useful for much the same reason that plain text is: 
it is a simple and generic interface for organizing things. The `index.py` 
script generates a site-wide table of contents directly from the folder 
structure. Metadata for each file is collected by `pandoc`.


Style
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The theme is minimal and monochrome. Its most distinguishing quality is that 
the table of contents extends horizontally and that all its entries are 
visible without further tapping, hovering or sliding; it is supposed to act as 
a vantage point. The CSS is written using SASS.



License
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The font referenced in the stylesheet is [Crimson
Text](https://github.com/skosch/Crimson), which is available under the
[Open Font License](http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?id=OFL).

To the greatest possible extent, I dedicate all other content in this
repository to the [public domain](https://unlicense.org/) (see the
`UNLICENSE` file).

Commit message:

Rely on templating rather than scripting.
Monolithic commit incoming.

- Moved templates to their own directory. Unfortunately, I thought that
I could use partials with pandoc templates, but that doesn't seem to
work. Need to figure out what to do about that.

- Removed the intermediate file in the logo.txt recipe.

- Removed the index generation scripts - that is now done right inside
the Makefile, without any Python.

- Updated the readme to reflect these and other recent changes.

README.md, after:

snel
==============================================================================

`snel` is the [lightweight](http://idlewords.com/talks/website_obesity.htm) 
template and a static website generator that I use for my personal website. It 
is currently a work-in-progress, but it is mostly functional. It roughly 
consists of two parts, each of which, I hope, may prove useful to someone:

1.  A simple makefile, to create documents and other resources.

2.  A logo and a minimalist style to present the above.


To install `snel`, do `make install`. To then use it with your own project, 
simply create a `Makefile` with the following lines:

    SRC=/path/to/sources
    DEST=/path/to/build
    USER=ftp_username
    HOST=ftp_host
    REMOTE=ftp_directory
    include snel.mk

Executing `make` will then generate a `build/` directory containing scripts, 
stylesheets and the example website. Should this be a bit primitive for your 
tastes, try other static website generators such as [hugo](http://gohugo.io/), 
[hakyll](https://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/about.html),
[jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/), [nanoc](https://nanoc.ws/), 
[yst](https://github.com/jgm/yst) or [middleman](https://middlemanapp.com/).



Makefile
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Plain text formats like [Markdown](http://commonmark.org/help/) and 
[YAML](http://www.yaml.org/spec/) are lightweight, understandable, and 
modifiable. In the spirit of the [UNIX 
philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy), I glued a couple 
of standard tools into a [make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make)-recipe for 
website generation.

Using `fd` and `pandoc`, the `Makefile` creates an HTML file for every 
Markdown document it can find in the source directory. With `jq`, an index is 
generated directly from the folder structure and `pandoc` metadata. After all, 
the directory hierarchy is a simple and generic interface for organizing 
things. just like plain text. Given an appropriate configuration, the results 
are uploaded with `lftp` by calling `make upload`.

As of now, the recipe calls for [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org/) 2.x, 
[sass](http://sass-lang.com/),
[svgo](https://github.com/svg/svgo),
[ImageMagick](http://www.imagemagick.org/),
[jp2a](https://csl.name/jp2a/),
[lftp](http://lftp.yar.ru/) and
[fd](https://github.com/sharkdp/fd) — but you could easily substitute or add 
any ingredient.



Style
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The theme is minimal and monochrome. Its most distinguishing quality is that 
the table of contents extends horizontally and that all its entries are 
visible without further tapping, hovering or sliding; it is supposed to act as 
a vantage point. The CSS is written using SASS.



License
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The font referenced in the stylesheet is [Crimson
Text](https://github.com/skosch/Crimson), which is available under the
[Open Font License](http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?id=OFL).

To the greatest possible extent, I dedicate all other content in this
repository to the [public domain](https://unlicense.org/) (see the
`UNLICENSE` file).
